>> Ifill: THE SUPREME COURT
RULED TODAY THAT, EVEN WITHOUT A
WARRANT, POLICE MAY TAKE D.N.A.
SAMPLES FROM SUSPECTS UNDER
ARREST.
GOOD EVENING.
I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Brown: AND I'M JEFFREY BROWN.
ON THE NEWSHOUR TONIGHT, MARCIA
COYLE DISSECTS THE 5-4 DECISION,
WHICH SPLIT THE COURT IN
SURPRISING WAYS.
>> Ifill: THEN, VIOLENT
DEMONSTRATIONS RAGED ACROSS
TURKEY FOR A FOURTH STRAIGHT
DAY.
WE GET THE LATEST ON THE
PROTESTERS CALLING FOR THE PRIME
MINISTER TO STEP DOWN.
>> IT REALLY STARTED AS THIS
TINY SIT-IN, BUT THIS KIND OF
PROGRESSIVE, POWERFUL REOOKS BY
THE POLICE BASICALLY CAUGHT THE
IMAGINATION OF A LOT OF PEOPLE
WHO ARE MORE BROADLY UNHAPPY
WITH PRIME MINISTER ERDOGAN'S
RULE.
>> Brown: MARGARET WARNER
REPORTS ON HEZBOLLAH'S
INCREASING ROLE IN SYRIA'S
BLOODY CIVIL WAR AND E FITHGHT
FOR A KEY SYRIAN CITY.
>> TROOPS HAVE TURNEDDED THE
TIDE IN THE BATTLE FOR THE TOWN
OF QUSAIR.
>> Ifill: RAY SUAREZ HAS THE
STORY OF THE COURT-MARTIAL OF
BRADLEY MANNING, THE ARMY
SOLDIER CHARGED WITH THE BIGGEST
LEAK OF CLASSIFIED INFORMATION
IN U.S. HISTORY.
>> Brown: AND WE CLOSE WITH A
LOOK BACK AT THE CAREER AND
POLITICAL LEGACY OF FRANK
LAUTENBERG, THE LONG-TIME NEW
JERSEY SENATOR WHO DIED TODAY AT
AGE 89.
>> Ifill: THAT'S ALL AHEAD ON
TONIGHT'S NEWSHOUR.
>> Ifill: THE SUPREME COURT
TODAY FOUND POLICE CAN COLLECT
D.N.A. FROM PEOPLE THEY ARREST,
EQUATING THE PROCEDURE TO
STANDARD PRACTICES SUCH AS
FINGERPRINTING.
THE RULING WAS 5-4, BUT NOT YOUR
USUAL 5-4.
JOINING US TO EXPLAIN THE
REASONING BEHIND AND THE IMPACT
OF THE DECISION IS MARCIA COYLE
OF THE "NATIONAL LAW JOURNAL."
AS ALWAYS, SHE WAS IN THE
COURTROOM TODAY.
SO START BY DESCRIBING TO ME THE
CIRCUMSTANCES OF THE ARREST OF
ONE ALANDS OWE KING.
>> MR. KING WAS ARRESTED IN 2009
ON ASSAULT CHARGES.
WHILE HE WAS BEING BOOKED,
POLICE TOOK A D.N.A. SWAB OF HIS
CHEEK AND SENT THAT OUT FOR
ANALYSIS.
THAT'S ALLOWED UNDER MARYLAND
LAW WHICH SAYS IF YOU ARE
ARRESTED BUT NOT YET CONVICTED
OF A SERIOUS CRIME, YOU CAN TAKE
THE D.N.A. SAMPLE.
SEVERAL MONTHS LATER, THERE WAS
A MATCH BETWEEN HIS D.N.A. AND
EVIDENCE IN AN UNSOLVED, 2003
RAPE.
HE WAS CHARGED WITH THE RAPE,
CONVICTED, SENTENCED TO LIFE,
MARYLAND'S HIGHEST COURT
REVERSED HIS CONVICTION FINDING
THAT THE MARYLAND D.N.A.
COLLECTION LAW VIOLATED THE
FOURTH AMENDMENT.
>> Ifill: BUT THEY WERE ARGUING
THAT FINGERPRINTING, SWABBING OF
THE CHEEK, SAME SORT OF THING.
>> WELL, THAT CAME IN THE
DECISION.
THE STATE OF MARYLAND BROUGHT AN
APPEAL TO THE U.S. SUPREME
COURT.
TODAY THE COURT IN DIVIDING 5-4
ANALYZED THE LAW UNDER THE
FOURTH AMENDMENT WHICH, AS YOU
KNOW, PROTECTS US FROM
UNSEASONABLE SEARCHES AND
SEIZURES.
>> Ifill: THEY SAID THIS WAS A
REASONABLE SEARCH.
>> JUSTICE KENNEDY SAID
REASONABLENESS IS THE TOUCH
STONE OF THE FOURTH AMENDMENT.
HERE IS SOMEONE ARRESTED WHO HAS
A LOWERED EXPECTATION OF PRIVACY
AND THE D.N.A. SWAB OF THE CHEEK
IS A MINIMAL INTRUSION, AND BOTH
ARE REALLY OUTWEIGHED BY LAW
ENFORCEMENT'S LEGITIMATE
INTEREST IN SAFE AND ACCURATE
IDENTIFICATION OF PEOPLE
ARRESTED.
THAT'S WHY HE COMPARED IT TO
FINGER PRINTING.
DOES THE SAME THING.
HE COMPARED IT ALSO TO MATCHING
AN ARRESTEES FACE TO A FACE ON A
WANTEDDED POSTER.
HE ALSO SAID THAT THE D.N.A.
ANALYSIS WAS IMPORTANT TO
ENSURING THE SAFETY OF THE
PUBLIC AS WELL AS THE SAFETY OF
STAFF AND OTHER DETAINEES IN A
FACILITY THAT WOULD ALSO BE USED
TO MAKE DECISIONS ABOUT BAIL AND
THE RISK TO THE PUBLIC.
HE SAID THERE IS A LIMIT IN THE
MARYLAND LAW, AND THAT IS IT'S
ONLY DONE IF YOU'VE BEEN
ARRESTED FOR SERIOUS CRIMES.
>> Ifill: 5-4.
WE'VE HAD THESE CONVERSATIONS
BEFORE WITH A 5-4 SPLIT IN THE
COURT.
IT SEEMS PRETTY PREDICTABLE WHO
IS 5 AND WHO IS 4.
NOT TODAY.
>> JUSTICE SCALIA LED THE
DISSENTERS.
HE WAS JOINED BY JUSTICES
GINSBERG, SOTOMAYOR AND KAGAN.
THE FOURTH AMENDMENT CASES TEND
TO BRING OUT HIS LIBERTARIAN
STREAK.
HE'S WRITTEN BEFORE ABOUT HOW
IMPORTANT IT IS TO WARRANTS OR
INDIVIDUALIZED SUSPICION.
HE SAID THAT THE COURT WAS
CLAIMING THAT THE D.N.A. SWAB
WAS REALLY FOR IDENTIFICATION
PURPOSES WAS BASICALLY A SMOKE
SCREEN FOR WHAT LAW ENFORCEMENT
REALLY WANTS TO DO AND THAT'S TO
SOLVE UNSOLVED CRIMES.
>> Ifill: WHICH IS WHAT HAPPENED
IN THIS CASE.
>> ABSOLUTELY.
HE SAID THAT'S A NOBLE GOAL, BUT
THE COURT, HE SAID, HAS NEVER
SUSPENDED THE INDIVIDUALIZED
SUSPICION THAT WOULD TIE A
PERSON TO A PARTICULAR CRIME FOR
AN INVESTIGATIVE PURPOSE.
THE COURT HAS DONE THAT IN A
VERY FEW NUM  CASES LIKE
YOU DON'T NEED SUSPICION TO DRUG
TEST RAIL WORKERS.
THERE THE MOTIVE IS SAFETY.
>> Ifill: THIS OUTCOME COULD
HAVE BEEN DIFFERENT IF A
RELIABLE FOUR SO-CALLED LIBERAL
JUSTICES STAYED TOGETHER BUT
JUSTICE BREYER WENT THE OTHER
WAY.
>> YES, HE DID.
JUSTICE BREYER IS KNOWN FOR A
VERY PRAGMATIC APPROACH TO
CONSTITUTIONAL INTERPRETATION.
AND I DON'T KNOW.
HE DIDN'T WRITE SEPARATELY SO I
DON'T KNOW WHAT HIS REASONS
WERE, BUT I SUSPECT SINCE HE
JOINED IN FULL JUSTICE KENNEDY'S
OPINION AS DID THE OTHER
CONSERVATIVES ON THE COURT, THAT
HE ACCEPTED THE REASONABLENESS
OF WHAT POLICE WERE DOING HERE.
>> Ifill: WAS THERE ANY
DISCUSSION ABOUT WHETHER THERE
WAS CONCERN ABOUT WHETHER THIS
D.N.A. INFORMATION COULD BE
MISUSED?
>> YES.
JUSTICE KENNEDY SAID THAT THE
MARYLAND LAW MADE CLEAR THAT IT
WAS ONLY FOR IDENTIFICATION
PURPOSES THAT YOU ARE NOT
GETTING THE INDIVIDUAL TOTAL
GENETIC PROFILE.
>> Ifill: EXACTLY.
RIGHT.
BUT HE DID SAY THAT THIS IS A
NEW TECHNOLOGY AND THAT OTHER
STATES' LAWS MAY RAISE OTHER
QUESTIONS THAT HAVE TO BE
ANSWERED DOWN THE ROAD.
THAT WASN'T SUFFICIENT FOR
JUSTICE SCALIA.
HE SAID IF HE FOLLOWED THE LOGIC
OF THE MAJORITY'S OPINION,
YOU'LL BE ABLE TO SWAB
SOMEBODY'S CHEEK WHENEVER
THEY'RE ARRESTED FOR WHATEVER
CRIME.
>> Ifill: NOT WHENEVER YOU'RE
STOPPED.
IF YOU'RE PULLED OVER BY THE
SIDE OF THE ROAD AND UNDER
SUSPICION OF HAVING DONE
SOMETHING, THEY CAN'T SWAB YOU
AT THE SIDE OF THE ROAD.
YOU HAVE TO BE UNDER ARREST, IN
CUSTODY.
>> WELL, IF YOU ARE ARRESTED OR
IF YOU ARE STOPPED BY POLICE ON
THE ROAD, THE POLICE CAN DO A
SEARCH INCIDENT TO AN ARREST, OR
THEY CAN... IF THEY HAVE
PROBABLE CAUSE TO BELIEVE THAT
YOU'VE COMMITTED A CRIME, THEY
ARE USUALLY REQUIRED TO GET A
WARRANT.
BUT THEY ALSO CAN SEARCH IF THEY
ARE CONCERNED THAT THEIR SAFETY
IS AT RISK.
SO IT'S A TOTALLY DIFFERENT
SITUATION.
HERE SOMEBODY WAS UNDER ARREST,
WASN'T CONVICTED.
AND THE LAW ALLOWED THE D.N.A.
SWAB.
>> ANY STATES BESIDES MARYLAND
WHICH HAS A LAW LIKE THIS?
>> 28 STATES AND THE FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT HAVE LAWS.
THEY'RE NOT ALL THE SAME.
IT MAY WELL BE THE COURT'S
DECISION TODAY WILL ENCOURAGE
OTHER STATES TO PASS SIMILAR
LAWS.
>> Ifill: VERY INTERESTING,
MARCIA COYLE.
AS ALWAYS, I KNOW YOU'RE BRACING
FOR THE REST OF THIS VERY BUSY
MONTH.
>> A VERY BUSY MONTH.
Ifill: THANK YOU.
MY PLEASURE.
>> Brown: STILL TO COME ON THE
NEWSHOUR, VIOLENT DEMONSTRATIONS
ACROSS TURKEY; MARGARET WARNER
ON HEZBOLLAH JOINING SYRIA'S
CIVIL WAR; BRADLEY MANNING ON
TRIAL FOR LEAKING SECRETS; AND
THE PASSING OF THE SENATE'S
OLDEST MEMBER.
BUT FIRST, THE OTHER NEWS OF THE
DAY.
HERS KWE'AME HOLMAN.
>> Holman: THE MAN ACCUSED IN
THE 2009 SHOOTINGS AT FORT HOOD,
TEXAS, WILL REPRESENT HIMSELF AT
HIS COURT-MARTIAL.
A MILITARY JUDGE RULED TODAY
THAT ARMY MAJOR NIDAL HASAN IS
MENTALLY COMPETENT TO ACT AS HIS
OWN DEFENSE LAWYER.
HE'S CHARGED WITH 13 COUNTS OF
PREMEDITATED MURDER AND 32
COUNTS OF ATTEMPTED MURDER.
JURY SELECTION BINSEG WEDNESDAY.
IF CONVICTED, HASAN COULD GET
THE DEATH PENALTY.
PRESIDENT OBAMA CALLED TODAY FOR
AMERICANS TO BRING MENTAL
ILLNESS "OUT OF THE SHADOWS."
HE SPOKE AT A WHITE HOUSE
CONFERENCE ORGANIZED AFTER THE
SCHOOL SHOOTINGS IN NEWTOWN,
CONNECTICUT.
THE PRESIDENT EMPHASIZED THAT
MOST OF THE MENTALLY ILL ARE NOT
VIOLENT, AND HE SAID IT'S
IMPORTANT TO ERASE THE STIGMA
ATTACHED TO THEIR CONDITION.
TOO MANY AMERICANS WHO
STRUGGLE WITH MENT HEALTH
ILLNESSES ARE STILL SUFFERING IN
SILENCE RATHER THAN SEEKING
HELP.
WE NEED TO SEE TO IT THAT MEN
AND WOMEN WHO WOULD NEVER
HESITATE TO TO GO SEE A DOCTOR
IF THEY HAD A BROKEN ARM OR CAME
DOWN WITH THE FLU, THAT THEY
HAVE THAT SAME ATTITUDE WHEN IT
COMES TO THEIR MEANT HEALTH.
>> Holman: ACCORDING TO THE
PRESIDENT, MORE THAN 60% OF
AMERICANS WITH MENTAL ILLNESS DO
NOT RECEIVE TREATMENT.
A FIRE AT A POULTRY PLANT IN
CHINA KILLED AT LEAST 119 PEOPLE
EARLY TODAY.
SURVIVORS TOLD STATE MEDIA THAT
ONLY ONE EXIT WAS UNLOCKED, AND
THE FIRE SPREAD QUICKLY.
WE HAVE A REPORT NARRATED BY
ANGUS WALKER OF INDEPENDENT
TELEVISION NEWS.
>> THE FIRE BROKE OUT JUST
BEFORE DAWN.
MORE THAN 300 WORKERS HAD
ALREADY START THEIR SHIFT AT A
CHICKEN PROCESNGSI FACTORY IN
NORTHEAST CHINA.
EYEWITNESSES S THAYEY HEARD
EXPLOSIONS AND THEN THE BUILDING
BEGAN TO FILL WITH SMOKE.
AROUND 100 EMPLOYEES ESCAPED
FROM THE PLANT, BUT OTHERS WERE
TRAPPED IN TIGHT CORRIDORS
LEADING TO NARROW DOORS OR
LOCKED EXITS ACCORDING TO
FIREFIGHTERS.
THERE'S GROWING PUBLIC OUTRAGE,
QUESTIONING THE FACTORY'S SAFETY
STANDARDS AS AN INVESTIGATION
BEGINS.
"WE'RE LOOKING INTO THE CAUSE OF
THIS ACCIDENT.
EFFORTS ARE BEING MADE TO
IDENTIFY THE INJURED AND DEAD.
>> Reporter: AT THIS EARLY
STAGE, IT'S BELIEVED AN AMMONIA
LEAK MAY HAVE CAUSED EXPLOSIONS
AND THE FIRE.
AN AREA OF UP TO A KILOMETER
AROUND THE FACTORY WAS EVACUATED
AMID FEARS OF FURTHER BLASTS.
THIS IS CERTAINLY ONE OF THE
WORST FACTORY FIRES IN CHINA'S
HISTORY.
A COUNTRY WHERE INDUSTRIAL
ACCIDENTS ARE COMMON.
>> Holman: THIS WAS THE THIRD
MAJOR INDUSTRIAL FIRE REPORTED
IN CHINA IN THE LAST FOUR DAYS.
THE DEATH TOLL WENT UP TO 14 IN
THE WAKE OF FRIDAY NIGHT'S
TORNADOES IN OKLAHOMA.
SIX PEOPLE STILL WERE MISSING.
ONE OF THE TWISTERS CAUGHT
PEOPLE TRYING TO DRIVE TO SAFETY
ON AN INTERSTATE, WEST OF
OKLAHOMA CITY.
IT HIT DURING THE EVENING RUSH
HOUR.
THREE OF THOSE KILLED WERE
VETERAN STORM CHASERS: TIM
SAMARAS, HIS SON PAUL, AND CARL
YOUNG.
DAYS OF HEAVY RAINFALL IN
CENTRAL EUROPE HAVE LED TO THE
WORST FLOODING IN CENTURIES, AND
AT LEAST EIGHT DEATHS.
IN SOUTHEASTERN GERMANY, WATER
LEVELS IN PASSAU NOW ARE HIGHER
THAN THEY'VE BEEN IN MORE THAN
500 YEARS.
TODAY, WITH WATER POURING IN
FROM THREE RIVERS, EMERGENCY
WORKERS USED BOATS TO EVACUATE
PEOPLE TRAPPED INSIDE THEIR
HOMES.
IN AFGHANISTAN, NINE
SCHOOLCHILDREN AND TWO NATO
TROOPS DIED IN A SUICIDE BOMBING
TODAY.
THE CHILDREN WERE ON THEIR WAY
HOME WHEN THE ATTACKER STRUCK
CLOSE TO MEMBERS OF A U.S.
MILITARY DELEGATION IN THE
EASTERN PROVINCE OF PAKTIA.
THE TALIBAN AND OTHER MILITANTS
HAVE INCREASED BOMBINGS
NATIONWIDE IN RECENT WEEKS,
TESTING AFGHAN FORCES' ABILITY
TO SECURE THE COUNTRY.
THE NEW HEAD OF THE INTERNAL
REVENUE SERVICE ACKNOWLEDGED
TODAY THAT AMERICANS HAVE GRAVE
QUESTIONS ABOUT HIS AGENCY.
DANNY WERFEL TESTIFIED AT A
HOUSE HEARING, HIS FIRST SINCE
BEING NAMED ACTING I.R.S.
COMMISSIONER.
HE ADDRESSED REVELATIONS THAT
CONSERVATIVE GROUPS WERE SINGLED
OUT, AND SAID A THOROUGH REVIEW
IS UNDER WAY.
>> THESE FAILURES HAVE
UNDERMINED THE PUBLIC'S TRUST IN
THE I.R.S.'s ABILITY TO
ADMINISTER THE TAX LAWS IN A
FAIR AND IMPARTIAL MANNER, AND
THEY MUST BE CORRECTED.
THE AGENCY STANDS READY TO
CONFRONT THE PROBLEMS THAT
OCCURRED, HOLD ACCOUNTABLE THOSE
WHO ACTED INAPPROPRIATELY, BE
OPEN ABOUT WHAT HAPPENED, AND
PERMANENTLY FIX THESE PROBLEMS
SO THAT SUCH MISSTEPS DO NOT
OCCUR AGAIN.
>> Holman: THE COMMITTEE ALSO
HEARD ABOUT LAVISH SPENDING BY
THE I.R.S. IN RECENT YEARS.
A TREASURY DEPARTMENT REPORT
BEING RELEASED TOMORROW SAYS THE
AGENCY SPENT $50 MILLION ON MORE
THAN 200 EMPLOYEE CONFERENCES
BETWEEN 2010 AND 2012.
ATTENDEES RECEIVED PERKS,
INCLUDING BASEBALL TICKETS AND
STAYS IN PRESIDENTIAL SUITES.
IT WAS WIDELY
REPORTED THIS EVENING THAT THE
PRESIDENT HAS CHOSEN WASHINGTON
LAWYER PATRICIA ANN MILLET, LAW
PROFESSOR CORNELIA POLE ARD AND
FEDERAL DISTRICT JUDGE ROBERT
LEON WILLKINS.
THE ANNOUNCEMENT IS EXPECTED
TOMORROW.
SENATE REPUBLICANS SAY THE
APPEALS COURT DOES NOT NEED MORE
JUDGES.
APPLE WENT ON TRIAL TODAY ON
CHARGES THAT IT BROKE FEDERAL
ANTI-TRUST LAWS AND CONSPIRED TO
DRIVE UP THE PRICE OF ELECTRONIC
BOOKS.
A FEDERAL PROSECUTOR IN NEW YORK
ALLEGED THAT APPLE JOINED FIVE
PUBLISHERS IN A SCHEME THAT COST
CONSUMERS HUNDREDS OF MILLIONS
OF DOLLARS.
THE TECH GIANT INSISTED ITS
ACTIONS ACTUALLY HELPED SPUR
COMPETITION.
THE PUBLISHERS ALREADY HAVE
SETTLED IN THE CASE.
U.S. AUTO SALES REBOUNDED IN MAY
AFTER A DIP IN APRIL.
NISSAN SALES JUMPED 25%.
BUSINESS AT FORD AND CHRYSLER
WAS ALSO UP BY DOUBLE DIGITS.
GENERAL MOTORS REPORTED A GAIN
OF 3%.
ON WALL STREET, STOCKS RALLIED
LATE AFTER WAVERING MUCH OF THE
DAY.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
GAINED 138 POINTS TO CLOSE AT
15,254.
THE NASDAQ ROSE NINE POINTS TO
CLOSE AT 3465.
THOSE ARE SOME OF THE DAY'S
MAJOR STORIES.
NOW, BACK TO JEFF.
>> Brown: AND WE TURN TO
POLITICAL UNREST IN TURKEY,
WHERE VIOLENT DEMONSTRATIONS
CONTINUED FOR A FOURTH
CONSECUTIVE DAY.
TURKISH GOVERNMENT'S SHOW OF
FORCE WAS ON FULL DISPLAY TODAY.
RIOT POLICE FIRED WATER CANNONS
AND TEAR GAS TO DISPERSE
PROTESTERS IN ANKARA.
THE UNREST INITIALLY ERUPTED
EARLY FRIDAY IN ISTANBUL AFTER
POLICE RAIDED A PEACEFUL SIT-IN
AGAINST PLANS TO BULL DOZE A
PARK.
>> THE RESISNCETA IN ONE PARK
ALONE HAS NOW TURNED INTO THE
RESISTANCE AND REBELLION OF ALL
THE PEOPLE.
THE PARK HAS BEEN A SYMBOL FOR
THE REPRESSED AND THOSE WHOSE
VOICE HAS NOT BEEN HEARD AND
THEN SPREAD ACROSS THE COUNTRY
FROM HERE.
>> Brown: DEMONSTRATIONS QUICKLY
SPREAD TO SEVERAL MAJOR CITIES
WITH HUNDREDS OF PEOPLE INJURED.
THE PROTESTERS ARE MAINLY
SECULAR TURKS WHO SEE THE
GOVERNMENT'S DEVELOPMENT PLANS
AS PART OF AN INCREASINGLY
AUTHORITARIAN RULE.
PRIME MINISTER ERDOGAN REJECTED
THE COMPLAINTS TODAY AND SAID
PROTEST ORGANIZERS ARE LEADING
THE YOUNG ASTRAY.
>> THE OPPOSITION MAY HAVE
TRICKED THEM INTEREST THE
REBELLION.
THE EXTREMISTS MAY HAVE DONE
THAT AS WELL.
THEY HAVE NETWORKS IN EVERY
CITY.
>> Brown: ERDOGAN HAS BEEN IN
POWER SINCE 200 AND HAS WON
THREE LANDSLIDE ELECTIONS.
UNDER HIS RULE TURKEY HAS SEEN
INCREASING ECONOMIC GROWTH AND A
HEIGHTENEDDED PRESENCE IN THE
INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY.
JUST LAST MONTH HE VISITED
WASHINGTON.
>> THIS VISIT REFLECTS THE
IMPORTANCE THAT THE UNITED
STATES PLACES ON OUR
RELATIONSHIP WITH OUR ALLY
TURKEY, AND I VALUE SO MUCH THE
PARTNERSHIP THAT I'VE BEEN ABLE
TO DEVELOP WITH PRIME MINISTER
ERDOGAN.
>> Brown: BUT TODAY SECRETARY OF
STATE JOHN KERRY QUESTIONED THE
TURKISH GOVERNMENT'S HANDLING OF
THE UNREST.
>> WE ARE CONCERNED BY THE
REPORTS OF EXCESSIVE USE OF
FORCE BY POLICE.
WE OBVIOUSLY HOPE THAT THERE
WILL BE A FULL INVESTIGATION OF
THOSE INCIDENTS AND FULL
RESTRAINT FROM THE POLICE FORCE
WI RESTHPECT TO THOSE KINDS OF
INCIDENTS.
>> Brown: DESPITE THE
DEMONSTRATIONS AND THE POLICE
RESPONSE, THERE'S BEEN VERY
LITTLE MEDIA COVERAGE INSIDE
TURKEY.
TODAY HDREUNDS OF PROTESTERS
DESCENDED ON A TURKISH
TELEVISION STATION IN ISTANBUL.
NEWS OF THE EVENTS, HOWEVER,
SPREAD THROUGHOUT TURKEY AND THE
WORLD ON SOCIAL MEDIA.
THAT DREW THE IRE OF ERDOGAN IN
A STATEMENT ON SUNDAY.
THERE IS NOW A MENACE WHICH IS
CALLED TWITTER, HE SAID.
THE BEST EXAMPLES OF LIES CAN BE
FOUND THERE.
TO ME SOCIAL MEDIA IS THE WORST
MENACE TO SOCIETY.
BUT TURKEY'S PRESIDENT STRUCK A
NOR CONCILIATORY TONE TODAY.
>> IN DEMOCRACIES, OF COURSE,
THOSE WHO RUN A COUNTRY ARE
ELECTED BY VOTES AND THROUGH THE
WILL OF THE PEOPLE.
BUT A DEMOCRACY IS NOT JUST
ABOUT VOTING.
IF THERE ARE DIFFERENT OPINIONS,
DIFFERENT SITUATIONS, DIFFERENT
POINTS OF VIEW AND DISSENT,
THERE IS NOTHING MORE NATURAL
THAN BEING ABLE TO VOICE THOSE
DIFFERENCES.
>> MEANWHILE IN NEIGHBORING
SYRIA, PRESIDENT BASHAR AL ASSAD
ISSUED A BAN ON TRAVEL TO
TURKEY.
CITING SECURITY CONCERNS.
THE TWO GOLFS HAVE BEEN AT ODDS
WITH ERDOGAN CONDEMNING ASSAD'S
VIOLENCE AGAINST HIS OWN
COUNTRYMEN AND DEMANDING HE STEP
DOWN.
A
A SHORT TIME AGO, I SPOKE TO
SCOTT PETERSON OF THE "CHRISTIAN
SCIENCE MONITOR" IN ISTANBUL.
SCOTT, THANKS FOR JOINING US.
SO THIS ALL STARTED OVER WHAT
FROM THE OUTSIDE SEEMS
RELATIVELY SMALL, SOME
REDEVELOPMENT PLANS.
WHAT DO PEOPLE SAY ABOUT ABOUT
WHY IT'S GROWN SO MUCH.
>> I THINK IT'S REALLY KIND OF
SHOCKED AUTHORITIES AND ALSO
SHOCKED THOSE WOULD HAVE
ACTUALLY TAKEN PART.
THE FACT THAT THIS GAINED SO
MUCH SPEED LAST FRIDAY JUST
THREE DAYS AGO.
IT REALLY STARTED AS THIS TINY
SIT-IN, BUT THIS KIND OF
PROGRESSIVE, POWERFUL REACTION
BY THE POLICE, THESE EFFORTS TO
BREAK UP THIS SIT-IN BASICALLY
CAUGHT THE IMAGINATION OF A LOT
OF PEOPLE WHO ARE MORE BROADLY
UNHAPPY WITH THE... WITH PRIME
MINISTER ERDOGAN'S RULE.
THEY WANTED TO MAKE THEIR POINT
AND THEY DID SO VERY, VERY
SWIFTLY.
WHAT I HEARD REPEATEDLY DURING
THESE DAYS IS HOW SURPRISED
PEOPLE WERE THAT THEY CAME OUT
IN SUCH LARGE NUMBERS THAT THEY
WERE ABLE TO TAKE ON THE POLICE
AND ALSO, OF COURSE, IN THEIR
VIEW, REACTING TO A VERY, VERY
STRONG POLICE EFFORT TO KEEP
THEM FROM GATHERING AND REALLY
EXPENDING HUGE AMOUNTS OF TEAR
GAS IN THE PROCESS.
>> Brown: TELL US A LITTLE BIT
MORE ABOUT WHO THE PROTESTERS
ARE AND TO THE EXTENT YOU CAN,
IS IT CLEAR WHAT THEY'RE AFTER.
>> WELL, THESE... THIS IS A
GREAT QUESTION.
I THINK, IN FACT, EVEN THE
PROTESTERS THEMSELVES DON'T
KNOW.
LITERALLY IN THE LAUGH HALF AN
HOUR I WAS SPEAKING TO YOUNG
STUDENTS.
THEY WERE ART STUDENTS.
THEY HAD CONSTRUCTION HELMETS.
THEY HAD PROTECTIVE MATERIAL
TAPED TO THE SIDES, AND THEY HAD
KIND OF WORKSHOP GOGGLES.
THAT WAS THEIR PROTECTION.
THERE WAS A GROUP OF THEM.
I SAID, OKAY, SO YOU'RE MAKING
YOUR POINT KNOWN.
THERE ARE A LOT OF PEOPLE HERE
BUT WHAT ARE YOU ACTUALLY AFTER?
OF COURSE, THEY SAID, WELL, WE
WANT TO SEE THE END OF ERRED GAN
AND THAT SORT OF THING.
I SAID YOU AND I BOTH KNOW THAT
ERDOGAN IS NOT GOING ANYWHERE,
THAT, YOU S F FOR 50, YOU
KNOW, HE'S GOT 50% OF THE
ELECTORATE BEHIND HIM.
HE FEELS VERY STRONG IN THAT.
SOME ANALYSTS SAY THAT HE HASN'T
LOST A SINGLE VOTE IN THE COURSE
OF THESE EVENTS BECAUSE THE
PEOPLE WHO ARE OUT THERE
PROTESTING ARE NOT THOSE WHO
VOTED FOR HIM.
WHAT REALLY DO YOU EXPECT TO
GAIN?
THEY REALLY HAD VERY LITTLE
SENSE ABOUT WHAT THEY ACTUALLY
DID WANT.
TO GET OR WHAT THEY EXPECTED.
I THINK IT DEPENDS ON THE
POLITICAL PARTIES.
IT ALSO DEPENDS ON, YOU KNOW,
WHAT TYPE... THEY SAY WE WANT
FREEDOM.
WE WANT MORE DEMOCRACY.
OF COURSE THIS IS ALREADY A
DEMOCRACY.
THERE'S A LOT TO PLAY OUT FOR
HERE POLITICALLY STILL BEFORE
THIS PROCESS IS OVER.
>> Brown: SO, SCOTT, THEN WHAT
HAS BEEN THE STANCE OF THE PRIME
MINISTER?
HE'S REJECTED ANY COMPARISONS TO
AN ARAB SPRING-TYPE SITUATION.
WHAT IS HE SAYING?
>> WELL, HE'S TAKEN A VERYONE AR
MANY OF THE PEOPLE WHO HAVE BEEN
PROTESTING A VERY THREATENING
TONE.
I THINK ONE OF THE MOST
IMPORTANT THINGS TO WATCH FOR IN
THE COMING DAYS IS TO SEE WHAT
MOVES OR WHAT ADJUSTMENTS PRIME
MINISTER ERDOGAN ACTUALLY MAKES
IN HIS STATEMENTS.
WILL HE SOUND MORE CONCILIATORY,
WHICH IS SOMETHING THAT REALLY
HAS BEEN AGAINST HIS CHARACTER
OVER THE LAST TEN YEARS.
WHEN YOU SPEAK TO PEOPLE ON THE
GROUND HERE, THEY DON'T EXPECT
ANY GIVE AT ALL FROM THE PRIME
MINISTER.
THEY'RE CONSTANTLY SPEAKING
ABOUT AUTHORITARIAN RULE.
THEY USE THE WORD DICTATOR AND
FASCIST.
ONE ANALYST DESCRIBED TO ME
TODAY THAT WHAT PRESIDENT
ERDOGAN SAYS IS A MAJORITY
DEMOCRACY.
HE WINS MOST VOTES AND HE TAKES
WHAT HE WANTS AND MAKES ALL THE
DECISIONS ON HIS OWN AS OPPOSED
TO A MUCH MORE INCLUSIVE
DEMOCRACY THAT WOULD BE ONE THAT
WOULD INCLUDE ALL THOSE TURKS
WHO ALSO DIDN'T VOTE FOR HIM.
THOSE ARE MANY WHO SEE WE SEE
OUT ON THE STREETS TODAY.
>> Brown: CAN YOU TELL HOW MUCH
THIS IS BEING SEEN THERE AS PART
OF A LARGER SPLIT WITHIN THE
SOCIETY OF THOSE WHO FAVOR A
MORE SECULAR CULTURE AND THOSE
WHO ARE FOR MORE AND INCLUDING
THE PRIME MINISTER'S PARTY, A
MORE RELIGIOUS-BASED SOCIETY.
>> THAT'S RIGHT.
WHAT WE'RE SEEING HERE REALLY
ARE THE VERY WIDE SOCIAL
DIVISIONS THAT ALREADY EXIST AND
HAVE EXISTED FOR DECADES REALLY
IN TURKEY.
KIND OF EXPOSED.
AND MADE CLEAR.
AND IT'S INTERESTING THAT THEY
COME NOW.
OF COURSE THEY HAVE ESPECIALLY
EXISTED OVER THE LAST DECADE
BECAUSE FOR THOSE, MANY OF THOSE
WHO ARE ON THE STREETS NOW, MORE
SECULAR BENT OR TYPE OF PEOPLE
WHO REALLY DO ADHERE TO THE
SECULAR BASIS OF THIS REPUBLIC
GOING BACK 75 YEARS, YOU KNOW,
WHAT THEY SEE IS THEY SEE AN
ENCROACHING ISLAMISM THAT IS
COMING FROM PRIME MINISTER
ERDOGAN.
THEY'VE COMPLAINED ABOUT THAT.
YOU KNOW, GOING BACK TEN YEARS
AGO THEY WERE ALWAYS MAKING
COMPARISONS SAYING WE DON'T WANT
TO HAVE AN ISLAMIC REPUBLIC IN
TURKEY.
THEY'RE GOING TO BRING AN
IRAN-STYLE ISLAMIC STATE.
ALL THAT KIND OF THING SPEAKING
IN A VERY EXTREME TERMS.
NOW PRIME MINISTER ERDOGAN IS IN
FACT OVERSEEING A MUCH MORE
MERCANTILE DEMOCRACY.
THIS WOULD BE, YOU KNOW, WHERE
MONEY REALLY TRUMPED MOST OTHER
CONCERNS.
WE HAVEN'T SEEN SO MUCH OF THE
RELIGIOUS SIDE BUT MORE RECENTLY
PEOPLE FEEL THAT THE PRIME
MINISTER HAS MADE AND HIS PARTY
HAS MADE MANY MORE STEPS TOWARD
AN ISLAMIC FUTURE.
THAT'S ONE THAT THEY REALLY FEEL
IS BEING IMPOSED UPON THEM AND
THEY DON'T WANT TO ACCEPT.
>> Brown: SCOTT PETERSON,
CHRISTIANE SCIENCE MONITOR IN
ISTANBUL, THANKS SO MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Ifill: WE TURN NOW TO THE
CONFLICT IN SYRIA AND THE
FURTHER SPILLOVER IN NEIGHBORING
LEBANON.
JUST YESTERDAY, 12 PEOPLE WERE
KILLED ON LEBANESE SOIL DURING A
BATTLE BETWEEN PRO-ASSAD
HEZBOLLAH GUERRILLAS AND SYRIAN
REBELS.
MARGARET WARNER IS ON A
REPORTING TRIP TO THE REGION AND
TONIGHT EXAMINES THE ROLE OF
LEBANON'S FIGHTERS, WHO ARE
ENGAGED ON BOTH SIDES OF SYRIA'S
BLOODY CIVIL WAR.
>> Warner: HIGH IN THE BEKAA
VALLEY TOWN OF MAASHGARA,
LEBANON'S SHIITE PARTY OF GOD,
HEZBOLLAH, CELEBRATED ITS
RESISTANCE AND LIBERATION DAY.
COMPLETE WITH MARTIAL MUSIC,
YOUTH SCOUTS, FLAGS, AND POSTERS
OF ICONIC SHIITE FIGURES FROM
LEBANON AND IRAN.
THE OCCASION: THE 13th
ANNIVERSARY OF ISRAEL'S
WITHDRAWAL FROM SOUTHERN LEBANON
AFTER NEARLY TWO DECADES OF
OCCUPATION.
THE THOUSANDS WHO GATHERED HERE
CAME TO CELEBRATE HEZBOLLAH'S
FOUNDING IDEAL: RESISTANCE
AGAINST ISRAEL.
BUT THEY ALSO HEARD THEIR LEADER
MAKE THE CASE FOR WHY HEZBOLLAH
IS ADDING ANOTHER FRONT TO ITS
LONG WAR.
THAT NEW FRONT: DEFENSE OF ONE
OF ITS CHIEF ALLIES, THE REGIME
OF BASHAR AL-ASSAD IN
NEIGHBORING SYRIA, WHERE A
BRUTAL CIVIL WAR HAS KILLED MORE
THAN 80,000 AND DISPLACED FOUR
MILLION.
HEZBOLLAH TROOPS HAVE HELPED
TURN THE TIDE FOR THE ASSAD
REGIME IN THE CURRENT BATTLE FOR
THE STRATEGIC TOWN OF QUSAYR.
THEY HAVE ALSO ADDED TO THE
CONFLICT'S OMINOUS SECTARIAN
BENT, AS ASSAD'S ALAWITE SECT,
AN OFFSHOOT OF SHIITE ISLAM,
CONFRONTS A MOSTLY SUNNIW#g
REBELLION BOLSTERED BY A FERVENT
JIHADIST CORPS.
HEZBOLLAH LEADER HASSAN
NASRALLAH SPOKE TO THE CROWD BY
VIDEOTAPE.
FAR FROM DOWNPLAYING HEZBOLLAH'S
ROLE ACROSS THE BORDER, HE
EMBRACED IT, SAYING THEY WERE
DEFENDING ALL OF LEBANON--
SHIITES, SUNNIS, AND
CHRISTIANS-- AGAINST THE
FUNDAMENTALIST AL-QAEDA-LIKE
SUNNIS IN THE SYRIAN OPPOSITION.
>> WE REGARD THE CONTROL THESE
GROUPS HAVE OVER SYRIA, AND
PARTS BORDERING LEBANON, AS A
GRAVE DANGER TO ALL LEBANESE--
AND WE HAVE BEEN PROMISED HERE
IN LEBANON THAT THIS SCOURGE IS
COMING OUR WAY.
>> Warner: HE ALSO ARGUED HIS
MILITIAS WERE DEFENDING A
CRUCIAL ALLY IN THE MOVEMENT'S
CORE MISSION OF RESISTING
ISRAEL.
>> SYRIA IS THE BACKBONE OF THE
RESISTANCE, AND THE RESISTANCE
CANNOT STAND IDLY BY.
IF SYRIA FALLS INTO THE HANDS OF
AMERICA, ISRAEL, AND THE
TAKFIRIS, THE RESISTANCE WILL
FIND ITSELF UNDER SIEGE, AND
ISRAEL WILL INVADE LEBANON.
>> Warner: 22-YEAR-OLD HASSAN
SA'AD RESPONDED TO THAT MESSAGE.
>> WE SUPPORT THE PARTICIPATION
OF HEZBOLLAH IN SYRIA.
BASHAR ASSAD HELPED US WIN THE
WAR OVER ISRAEL.
ALL OUR WEAPONS WERE ENTERING
FROM THERE.
>> Warner: GRANDMOTHER FATIMA
SHARED NASRALLAH'S FEAR OF THE
EXTREMISTS IN THE SYRIAN
OPPOSITION.
>> IF THEY ARE NOT STOPPED IN
SYRIA, THEY ARE COMING AFTER US.
WE DON'T SLAUGHTER PEOPLE.
WE ARE T SANOVAGES LIKE THEM.
>> THE MAIN ELEMENT OF
HEZBOLLAH'S NARRATIVE IS THAT
THE FIGHT IN SYRIA IS A
PREEMPTIVE WAR.
>> Warner: RANDA SLIM OF THE NEW
AMERICA FOUNDATION, AUTHOR OF A
FORTHCOMING BOOK ON HEZBOLLAH,
SAYS NASRALLAH IS CASTING THIS
AS A NECESSARY WAR OF
PREVENTION.
>> IT'S BETTER FOR US SHI'AS AND
HEZBOLLAH TO FIGHT THEM INSIDE
SYRIA INSTEAD OF WAITING FOR
THEM TO COME TO OUR BACK DOORS.
>> Warner: AND ARE SHI'A HERE
BUYING THAT?
>> SO FAR THE MAJORITY OF THE
SHI'AS AND THE CORE CONSTITUENCY
OF HEZBOLLAH HAS BOUGHT LOCK,
STOCK, AND BARREL INTO THIS
NARRATIVE.
>> Warner: NOT ALL, HOWEVER.
ONE OF HEZBOLLAH'S FOUNDERS,
SHEIKH SUBHI AL TUFAYLI, SAYS
NASRULLAH IS SIMPLY DOING THE
BIDDING OF HIS PATRON IRAN.
>> THE TRUTH IS, HEZBOLLAH IS
ORDERED TO DEFEND THE REGIME.
THE PARTY KNOWS AND ALL ITS
LEADERSHIP KNOW THAT THIS
DECISION IS WRONG AND
DESTRUCTIVE, AND THAT IT WOULD
PUT AN END TO THE PARTY.
DESPITE THIS, THE PARTY HAD TO
ACCEPT THE IRANIAN DECISION.
UNFORTUNATELY, IF THINGS
CONTINUE THIS WAY, WE ARE
HEADING TOWARDS A DESTRUCTIVE
SUNNI-SHIITE WAR.
>> Warner: TUFAYLI, WHO SPLIT
FROM THE GROUP MORE THAN 15
YEARS AGO, SAID LEBANESE SHIITES
SIDING WITH "OPPRESSORS" LIKE
ASSAD WILL BRING DISASTROUS
CONSEQUENCES.
>> A WAR THIS SIZE WILL PROVOKE
THE PEOPLE AND CAUSE THE DEATHS
OF MILLIONS.
GOING TO SYRIA FROM THIS COUNTRY
TO PARTICIPATE IN THE WAR IS
INDIRECTLY AN INVITATION FOR
OTHERS TO PARTICIPATE IN THIS
WAR.
MOST SUNNIES SUPPORT THE
WESTERN-BACKED SYRIAN REBELS.
RADICAL SUNNIES
RADICAL SUNNIS LIKE SHEIKH AHMAD
AL ASSIR IN THE PORT CITY OF
SIDON HAS BEEN DOING JUST THAT,
URGING HIS FOLLOWERS TO JOIN THE
SYRIAN REBELS FIGHT AGAINST
ASSAD.
FRIDAY, HE CITED NASRALLAH'S
SPEECH.
>> NASRALLAH SAID I WANT YOU TO
KILL THEUNNI S, WHO ARE WORSE
THAN THE JEWS, TO GO FIGHT IN
SYRIA TO GHT FITHE REBELS.
WE CONSIDER THOSE WORDS ARE
LAUNCHING WAR AGAINST SUNNIS
THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
>> Warner: ASSIR, WHO MADE A
RECENT SHOW OF GOING TO THE
FRONT LINES IN SYRIA HIMSELF,
CONCEDES LEBANESE SUNNIS
ASSISTING THE REBELS ARE NO
MATCH FOR HEZBOLLAH'S
REINFORCEMENTS FOR ASSAD.
>> THEY HAVE MORE MILITARY
EXPERIENCE AND THEY HAVE MUCH
MORE DEVELOPED WEAPONS.
WE KNOW THAT OUR PEOPLE ARE NOT
GOING TO MAKE A DIFFERENCE, BUT
IT IS OUR DUTY TO SEND THEM.
>> Warner: SO DO YOU THINK THIS
IS TURNING INTO A SUNNI/SHI'A
WAR?
>> I CONSIDER THIS A WAR
LAUNCHED BY THOSE SHI'A GROUPS
WHO HAVE ALWAYS CARRIED
ANIMOSITY AND HATRED TO THE
SUNNIS THROUGHOUT HISTORY.
>> Warner: HASSAN SROUR OF
TRIPOLI, A SUNNI, ANSWERED THE
CALL TO HELP THE SYRIAN REBELS.
BUT HE AND HIS COMRADES WERE
ATTACKED BY ASSAD'S FORCES.
MOST, INCLUDING HIS BROTHER,
WERE KILLED.
>> I WENT THERE BECAUSE ALL THE
SUNNIS THERE ARE BEING
SLAUGHTERED AND TORTURED.
THIS IS OUR RELIGIOUS DUTY TO GO
AND DEFEND OUR FAMILIES THERE.
>> Warner: OTHER LEBANESE SUNNIS
LIKE 21-YEAR-OLD FSA MAYASS
TAYAR, WHO HAD JUST LEFT THE
BRUISING BATTLE FOR QUSAYR TO
BRING HIS FAMILY TO THE LEBANESE
SUNNI VILLAGE OF ARSAL.
HE SAID THE HEZBOLLAH MILITIAS
ARE ASSAD'S MOST EFFECTIVE FORCE
THERE.
>> THEY ARE WEARING MILITARY
UNIFORMS AND THEIR FACES ARE
COVERED.
THEY ARE MANY IN NUMBER,
THOUSANDS.
THEY HAVE VERY SOPHISTICATED
WEAPONS.
THEY EVEN HAVE M-16's, WHICH THE
SYRIAN ARMY DOESN'T HAVE.
THE SYRIAN ARMY HAS
KALASHNIKOVS.
>> Warner: MANY OF THOSE
HEZBOLLAH FIGHTERS ENTERED SYRIA
NOT FAR FROM ARSAL, NEAR THE
SHIITE TOWNS OF HERMEL AND AL
QASR AT THE NORTHERN END OF THE
BEKAA VALLEY.
WE ARE JUST INSIDE THE SYRIAN
BORDER.
SEVEN MILES FARTHER, THROUGH THE
HAZE, LIES THE CITY OF QUSAYR,
WHERE HEZBOLLAH IS FIGHTING WITH
ASSAD'S FORCES TO RETAKE THE
TOWN.
HEZBOLLAH MILITIAS USED TO BASE
THEIR OPERATIONS HERE, BUT NOW
THAT THEY'VE RETAKEN TERRITORY
AROUND QUSAYR, THEY'VE BEEN ABLE
TO MOVE DEEPER INSIDE.
SYRIAN JETS ROARED OVERHEAD AS A
CONSTANT THUNDER OF ARTILLERY
POUNDED THE CITY.
NONE OF THE HEZBOLLAH ESCORTS
WHO BROUGHT US TO THE AREA WOULD
SPEAK TO US ON CAMERA.
BUT WHEN THEY TOOK US RIGHT NEXT
TO A SYRIAN ARMY OUTPOST, IT WAS
CLEAR HOW CLOSE THE TWO WERE AND
HOW HERE THE BORDER IS JUST A
LINE ON THE MAP.
HEZBOLLAH'S INVOLVEMENT IN SYRIA
HAS COME AT A PRICE.
REBELS OR THEIR SYMPATHIZERS
HAVE BEEN REGULARLY FIRING
ROCKETS AT SHIITE TOWNS IN
LEBANON.
AMONG THE MOST FREQUENT TARGETS:
THE HEZBOLLAH-DOMINATED TOWN OF
HERMEL.
VICE-MAYOR ISSAM BLABEL TOOK US
TO THE SITE OF LAST TUESDAY'S
ROCKET ATTACK.
>> THE ROCKET FELL AT 4:00 IN
THE AFTERNOON, WHEN PEOPLE ARE
RESTING IN THEIR HOMES.
>> Warner: HERMEL HAS BEEN HIT
WITH MORE THAN 70 ROCKETS IN THE
LAST MONTH, EVER SINCE THE
BATTLE FOR QUSAYR INTENSIFIED.
>> EVERY HOUSE HERE HAS A
HEZBOLLAH MEMBER, AND THE SHI'A
ARE ALMOST ALL SUPPORTERS OF
HEZBOLLAH.
THEY CLAIM THAT THIS IS A BASE
FOR LAUNCHING OPERATIONS AGAINST
THEM, BUT THEY ARE TARGETING IT
BECAUSE IT'S PURELY A SHI'A
VILLAGE.
>> Warner: THE REBELS HAVE SAID
IF HEZBOLLAH DOESN'T WITHDRAW
FROM SYRIA, THEY ARE GOING TO
INCREASE ATTACKS ON HEZBOLLAH
BASES IN LEBANON.
>> OUR BASES AND OFFICES ARE NOT
EXPOSED, AND NOBODY KNOWS WHERE
THEY ARE.
>> Warner: BLABEL SAID 3,500
HEZBOLLAH FIGHTERS ARE IN SYRIA.
WHATEVER THE NUMBER, THEY ARE
BATTLE-TESTED FROM FIGHTING
ISRAEL TO STALEMATE IN 2006.
DO THEY OPERATE UNDER WHOSE
COMMAND?
>> UNDER THE COMMAND OF THE
SYRIAN ARMY.
SINCE 2006 THE SYRIAN ARMY HAS
BEEN HELPING THE RESISTANCE
AGAINST ISRAEL.
THEY HAVE BEEN SUPPLYING US WITH
ARMS AND AMMUNITION AND
LOGISTICS, WHATEVER WE NEED.
>> Warner: WHAT'S NEW-- AND
INCREASINGLY ROUTINE-- ARE
HEZBOLLAH BODIES BEING RETURNED
FOR BURIAL FROM BATTLES OUTSIDE
LEBANON.
WE SURREPTITIOUSLY FILMED THIS
FUNERAL PROCESSION IN THE
CENTRAL BEKAA VALLEY TOWN OF
BAALBEK, HONORING TWO FIGHTERS--
WHOM THEY CALL MARTYRS-- KILLED
IN THE BATTLE IN QUSAYR.
SOME 200 ARE THOUGHT TO HAVE
DIED SO FAR, FIGHTING FOR BASHAR
ASSAD.
RANDA SLIM SAYS IT'S UNCLEAR HOW
LONG HEZBOLLAH LEADERS CAN
SUSTAIN THAT AMONG THEIR RANKS.
>> IT'S HARD TO TELL HOW MANY
MEN WILL HAVE TO DIE BEFORE YOU
HAVE THE FIRST MOTHER IN BLACK
OF THE FALLEN, STANDING UP IN
PUBLIC AND SAYING, "I'M NOT
SENDING MY SECOND SON, OR MY
THIRD SON, TO FIGHT IN SYRIA."
>> Warner: SO FAR, THAT MOTHER
HAS YET TO MAKE HER STAND.
>> Brown: NOW TO A MILESTONE IN
THE LARGEST LEAK OF CLASSIFIED
DOCUMENTS IN U.S. HISTORY.
RAY SUAREZ HAS MORE.
>> Suarez: THREE YEARS AFTER HIS
ARREST IN IRAQ, THE COURT
MARSHAL FOR PRIVATE FIRST CLASS
BRADLEY MANNING BEGAN TODAY AT
FORT MEAD IN MARYLAND.
MANNING HAS ALREADY PLEADED
GUILTY TO SEVERAL CHARGES.
WHAT REMAINS TO BE FOUGHT OUT IN
COURT.
>> WHAT HE PLEADED GUILTY TO
WERE SUBSTANTIALLY LESSER
CHARGES.
THE MOST SERIOUS CHARGES WHICH
INCLUDED AIDING THE ENEMY, THAT
WOULD POSSIBLY INVOLVE A LIFE IN
PRISON SENTENCE, THOSE STILL
HAVE TO BE ARGUED THROUGH IN
GREAT DETAIL.
>> Suarez: WE GOT TO SEE THE
BROAD OUTLINE OF THE
PROSECUTION'S CASE TODAY.
HOW ARE THEY GOING TO GO AFTER
BRADLEY MANNING?
>> WELL, THE PROSECUTION IN
THEIR OPENING STATEMENT WENT
THROUGH A VERY DETAILED
METHODICAL POINT BY POINT TIME
LINE OF WHEN HE ARRIVED IN IRAQ,
WHAT HE LEAKED AND WHEN HE
DECIDED TO LEAK IT.
THEY'RE GOING TO SHOW THAT HE
LEAKED THESE THINGS AND HE KNEW
THAT THESE THINGS COULD AID THE
ENEMY.
>> Suarez: WE'RE IN A SITUATION
WHERE WE HAVE A DEFENDANT WHO
HAS ALREADY ADMITTED COMMITTING
THE CORE CRIME.
SO WHEN HIS DEFENSE TEAM GAVE
THEIR OPENING ARGUMENT IN THE
OUTLINES OF THEIR DEFENSE, WHAT
ARE THEY GOING TO SAY ON BRADLEY
MANNING'S BEHALF WHEN THEY PUT
HIS CASE ON.
>> THEY'RE NOT ARGUING THAT
BRADLEY MANNING LEAKS
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
THEY'RE SAYING THAT THE DEFENSE
SAID IN HIS OPENING ARGUMENT
THAT BRADLEY MANNING WAS YOUNG,
NAIVE, BUT GOOD INTENTION.
THE GOOD INTENTIONS MEANING THAT
HE WAS ESSENTIALLY THINKING OF
HIMSELF AS A WHISTLE BLOWER.
HE SAW THINGS IN IRAQ WHAT HE
CONSIDERED A DISREGARD FOR IRAQI
LIFE IN PARTICULAR BUT HE FOUND
SO OBJECTIONABLE THAT HE THOUGHT
THERE WASN'T BEING ANYTHING DONE
ABOUT IT AT THE TIME.
WHAT HE THOUGHT HE WAS DOING WAS
BEING A WHISTLE BLOWER, DOING
THE RIGHT AND MORAL THING EVEN
ACCORDING TO THE LETTER OF THE
LAW IT WAS NOT LEGAL.
>> Suarez: ARE BOTH THE DEFENSE
AND THE PROSECUTION GOING TO
ARGUE A LOT ABOUT BOTH BRADLEY
MANNING'S MOTIVES IN TURNING
OVER THE DOCUMENTS TO WIKILEAKS
BUT ALSO WHO HE THOUGHT WOULD
RECEIVE IT IN THE END, WHO WOULD
SEE WHAT HE WAS TURNING OVER.
>> WELL, RIGHT.
THAT'S THE KEY PART OF THE
GOVERNMENT'S ARGUMENT WITH
AIDING THE ENEMY.
THE IDEA THAT BY RELEASING THIS
INFORMATION TO WIKILEAKS BRADLEY
MANNING KNEW THAT AL QAEDA, OUR
ENEMIES WERE READING WIKILEAKS
AND WOULD THEREFORE GET THAT
INFORMATION.
THE DEFENSE IS SAYING, NO, HE
WAS SELECTIVE WITH THE
INFORMATION HE RELEASED.
HE WAS NOT RELEASING STUFF THAT
COULD DAMAGE THE UNITED STATES
BUT STUFF HE WANTED TO DO THAT
WOULD CREATE A DIALOGUE WITH THE
AMERICAN PUBLIC.
HE WAS THINKING ABOUT AMERICAN
PEOPLE NOT ABOUT THE ENEMY.
>> Suarez: WHEN YOU SAY THINKING
ABOUT AMERICAN PEOPLE, WHAT DOES
THE DEFENSE TEAM SAY THAT
ULTIMATELY BRADLEY MANNING HAD
IN MIND AS A GOAL IN RELEASING
THESE OTHERWISE SECRET
DOCUMENTS?
>> HE WANTED TO GENERATE A
DEBATE IN AMERICA.
HE THOUGHT THAT IF AMERICANS
KNEW WHAT WAS GOING ON, WHAT WAS
IN THESE DETAILED DAY-TO-DAY
LOGS, WHAT WAS GOING ON IN IRAQ,
THE NUMBER OF CIVILIANS BEING
KILLED, THAT IT WOULD GENERATE A
DEBATE IN AMERICA, ABOUT THE
WARS, HOW THEY'RE BEING WAGED.
THE DEFENSE ATTORNEY THOUGHT HE
WAS NAIVE IN THINKING THAT.
>> TODAY THE FIRST WIT WITNESSES
TOOK TO THE STAND.
WHO WERE THEY AND WHAT DID THEY
HAVE TO SAY?
>> THE FIRST TWO WIT WITNESSES
WERE INVESTIGATIVE OFFICERS WHO
WERE THERE ON THE SCENE IN
BAGHDAD, THERE ON THE SEEN IN
IRAQ WHERE PRIVATE MANNING WAS
STATIONED.
THEY WERE THERE AND DID THE
INITIAL CRIME SCENE
INVESTIGATION.
THEY INTERVIEWED SOME OF THE
PEOPLE WHO WERE THERE AND
INVESTIGATED AROUND THE SCENE TO
COLLECT THE EVIDENCE.
THE OTHER WITNESS WAS BRADLEY
MANNING'S ROOMMATE THERE IN IRAQ
WHO WAS THERE, STAYED WITH HIM
IN THE SAME ROOM BUT DIDN'T KNOW
MANNING AT ALL.
THEY LED SEPARATE EXISTENCES.
THEY DIDN'T GET MUCH OF AN
INSIGHT INTO BRADLEY MANNING
EXCEPT THAT HE KEPT TO HIS OWN,
KEPT TO HIMSELF.
>> AND THESE ARE WITNESSES FOR
THE PROSECUTION.
SO FAR IT'S THEY WHO WILL PUT ON
THEIR CASE FIRST.
>> RIGHT.
THE PROSECUTION IS LAYING OUT
THEIR CASE FIRST.
THEY HAVE OVER 100 WITNESSES
THEY'RE SCHEDULED TO CALL.
WHETHER OR NOT THEY'LL ALL BE
CALLED WILL BE SEEN.
BUT THEY HAVE A PRETTY EXTENSIVE
WITNESS LIST TO LAY OUT IN
DETAIL WHAT EXACTLY BRADLEY
MANNING DID WRONG AND WHY IT WAS
SO WRONG.
>> THIS IS EXPECTED.
YOU MENTION 100 WITNESSES FOR
THE PROSECUTION.
THIS I SEXPECTED TO BE A FAIRLY
LONG TRIAL.
ISN'T IT?
>> IT'S SCHEDULED TO GO THROUGH
AUGUST 23 WHICH IS QUITE A LONG
AMOUNT OF TIME.
THEY'RE SAYING THE REASON FOR
THIS IS IT'S SUCH A MASSIVE
AMOUNT OF DATA THAT WAS LEAKED.
SO MANY DETAILS TO GO THROUGH
AND/OR TO PROVE WHETHER OR NOT
BRADLEY MANNING CAUSED DAMAGE,
WAS AIDING THE ENEMY AND ALL
THESE QUESTIONS WHICH ARE
OUTSTANDING.
>> FROM PBS'S FRONT LINE, THANKS
FOR JOINING US.
>> THANKS, RAY.
>> Ifill: WE'LL BE BACK SHORTLY
WITH A LOOK AT THE LIFE AND
POLITICAL LEGACY OF SENATOR
FRANK LAUTENBERG, WHO PASSED
AWAY TODAY.
BUT FIRST, THIS IS PLEDGE WEEK
ON PBS.
THIS BRE ALLAKOWS YOUR PUBLIC
TELEVISION STATION TO ASK FOR
>> Ifill: FINALLY TONIGHT, THE
SENATE LOST ONE OF ITS LONGEST
SERVING MEMBERS, AND ITS LAST
WORLD WAR II VETERAN.
FLAGS FLEW AT HALF STAFF OVER
THE U.S. CAPITOL, HONORING NEW
JERSEY DEMOCRATIC SENATOR FRANK
LAUTENBERG WHO DIED EARLY TODAY
OF PNEUMONIA AT A NEW YORK
HOSPITAL.
SENATE MAJORITY LEADER HARRY
REID.
>> FEW PEOPLE IN THE HISTORY OF
THIS INSTITUTION HAVE
CONTRIBUTED AS MUCH TO OUR
NATION AND TO THE UNITED STATES
SENATE AS FRANK LAUTENBERG.
SUCCESS STORY IS REALLY WHAT THE
AMERICAN DREAM IS IS ALL ABOUT.
HE IS THE LAST WORLD WAR II
VETERAN.
HAVING SERVED IN THE SENATE.
WE DON'T HAVE ANY WORLD WAR II
VETERANS ANYMORE, MR. PRESIDENT.
HIS DEATH IS A GREAT LOSS FOR
THIS INSTITUTION AND MANY
MANY... IN MANY MANY DIFFERENT
WAYS.
>> Ifill: LAUTENBERG WAS A
MILLIONAIRE BUSINESSMAN, FIRST
ELECTED TO THE SENATE IN 1982 AT
THE AGE OF 58.
HE'S KNOWN FOR PUSHING THROUGH A
1989 LAW THAT BANNED SMOKING ON
MOST U.S. FLIGHTS.
AND HE WAS ALSO THE DRIVING
FORCE BEHIND A 1984 LAW THAT
RAISED THE NATIONAL DRINKING AGE
TO 21.
HE DISCUSSED IT THAT YEAR ON THE
NEWSHOUR.
>> I DON'T THINK THE CONGRESS IS
GOING TO BACK OFF.
WE SEE A MOVEMENT IN THIS
COUNTRY TO ABOLISH DRUNK
DRIVING.
>> Ifill: LAUTENBERG LEFT THE
SENATE IN 2000 AFTER 18 YEARS.
BUT TWO YEARS LATER HE CAME OUT
OF RETIREMENT AS A LAST-MINUTE
REPLACEMENT FOR SCANDAL-RIDDEN
SENATOR ROBERT TORRICELLI WHO
PULLED OUT JUST FIVE WEEKS
BEFORE ELECTION DAY.
LAUTENBERG WON EASILY AND
RETURNED TO THE SENATE, AT AGE
78.
FOUR MONTHS AGO HE ANNOUNCED HE
WOULD RETIRE A SECOND TIME AFTER
HIS FIFTH TERM ENDED IN 2015.
HE CAST ONE OF HIS FINAL VOTES
IN APRIL APPEARING ON THE SENATE
FLOOR IN A WHEELCHAIR TO SUPPORT
A GUN-CONTROL BILL THAT
ULTIMATELY FAILED.
IT'S NOW UP TO NEW JERSEY'S
REPUBLICAN GOVERNOR CHRIS
CHRISTIE TO APPOINT A SUCCESSOR
TO FILL OUT LAUTENBERG'S TERM.
>> I THINK THE BEST WAY TO
DESCRIBE FRANK LAUTENBERG AND
THE WAY HE WOULD PROBABLY WANT
TO BE DESCRIBED TO ALL OF YOU
TODAY IS AS A FIGHTER.
SO TODAY IS A SAD DAY FOR THE
PEOPLE OF NEW JERSEY.
>> Ifill: FRANK LAUTENBERG WAS
89 YEARS OLD.
FOR MORE ON LAUTENBERG'S LEGACY,
AND WHO MIGHT REPLACE HIM, WE
TURN TO HERB JACKSON, WASHINGTON
CORRESPONDENT FOR THE "NORTH
JERSEY RECORD."
FIVE TERMS, THE OLDEST SENATOR.
WHAT WOULD HE SAY HIS LEGACY
WAS?
>> WELL, I MEAN, HE DID TALK
ABOUT HIS LEGACY WHEN HE
ANNOUNCED HE WAS GOING TO
RETIRE.
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION, THE
DOMESTIC VIOLENCE LAW THAT
PROHIBITS ABUSERS FROM GETTING
HANDGUNS.
HE FOUGHT FOR MASS TRANSIT.
THERE'S A TRAIN STATION IN NEW
JERSEY NAMED AFTER HIM.
HE WAS FIGHTING VERY HARD TO GET
A NEW TRAIN TUNNEL UNDER THE
HUDSON RIVER, AND THAT WAS ONE
OF THE THINGS HE AND GOVERNOR
CHRISTIE FOUGHT ABOUT.
HE'S GOT A LOT OF DIFFERENT
AREAS BUT HE'S AN OLD SCHOOL
LIBERAL.
HE CAME UP IN THAT ERA.
HE DIDN'T THINK GOVERNMENT WAS
TOO BIG.
HE THOUGHT IT WAS SUPPOSED TO BE
THERE TO HELP THE WEAK AND THE
POOR.
>> Ifill: IT WASN'T AN ACCIDENT
THAT ONE OF HIS FINAL BIG VOTES
WAS ON THAT GUN-CONTROL
BACKGROUND CHECK BILL.
>> HE HAD BEEN ILL MUCH OF THE
YEAR AND BEEN TELLING THE SENATE
LEADERSHIP THAT IF THERE WAS A
CLOSE VOTE AND THEY NEEDED HIM
TO BE THERE, HE WOULD DO IT.
HE TOOK THAT VOTE FOR THE
BACKGROUND CHECK BILL WHICH WAS
ONE OF THE THINGS THAT HE HAD
BEEN CHAMPIONING FOR QUITE A
NUMBER OF YEARS SINCE IT EXPIRED
FROM... DURING THE BUSH
ADMINISTRATION.
SO IT'S BEEN AROUND, FOR HIM AS
AN ISSUE, FOR A LONG TIME.
>> Ifill: I THINK A LOT OF
PEOPLE COULD PROBABLY LEAVE THE
SENATE AND NOT BE ABLE TO POINT
TO THINGS THAT ACTUALLY HAD AN
IMPACT ON PEOPLE'S LIVES BUT IN
HIS CASE NOT ONLY GUN-CONTROL
ISSUES BUT ALSO ENVIRONMENTAL
PROTECTION AND AIRPLANE, BANNING
SMOKING ON AIRPLANES AND
LOWERING THE DRINKING AGE ALL
HAD A BIGGIE FECT.
>> THE SPEED LIMIT.
THINGS LIKE THAT.
HE WAS REALLY ONE OF THOSE
PEOPLE WHO THOUGHT GOVERNMENT
SHOULD STOP YOU FROM DOING
THINGS THAT ARE BAD.
>> TAKE US BACK TO 2000 WHEN HE
DECIDED TO OR SOMEONE WAS
DRAFTED OR REQUESTED TO COME
BACK AFTER HE HAD ALREADY
RESIGNED.
2002.
WHAT HAPPENED THERE?
>> WELL, I MEAN, HE RETIRED AND
THEN IMMEDIATELY HATED IT.
HE DIDN'T LIKE NOT BEING A
SENATOR.
AND HE SAT THROUGH TWO YEARS
WATCHING HIS FRIEND JOHN CORZINE
GET HIS FEET WET IN THE SENATE.
ALL OF A SUDDEN BOB TORRICELLI
STARTED TO IMPLODE.
AND PARTY LEADERS NEEDED
SOMEBODY IN SEPTEMBER OF THE
ELECTION YEAR WHO COULD GET ON
THE BALLOT QUICKLY, RAISE MONEY
TO RUN, AND, IN FACT, PUT HIS
OWN MONEY INTO RUNNING BECAUSE
HE WAS A MILLIONAIRE.
LAUTENBERG CAME BACK.
EVERYBODY THOUGHT HE WOULD BE
THERE FOR ONE TERM.
HE RAN BEGAN IN 2008 AND WON
AGAIN.
>> Ifill: FRANK LAUTENBERG WAS A
LOT OF THINGS.
AMONG THEM HE WAS A SELF-MADE
MILLIONAIRE AND ALSO A
REPUTATION OF BEING KIND OF A
TOUGH POLITICIAN.
WAS THAT JERSEY POLITICS OR WAS
THAT ANYWHERE POLITICS?
>> HE LIKED TO FIGHT.
HE LIKED TO CALL DICK CHENEY A
CHICKEN HAWK.
HE LIKED TO GET IN AND SCRAP
WITH PEOPLE.
HE BARKED A LOT.
BUT HE ALSO HAD FRIENDS ON THE
OTHER SIDE OF THE AISLE.
I DON'T THINK HE WAS A
BIPARTISAN KIND OF GUY IN ANY
REAL SENSE ALTHOUGH JUST A
FEW... JUST A WEEK-AND-A-HALF
AGO HE DID GET A BIPARTISAN
AGREEMENT ON ONE OF THE BILLS HE
WANTED TO GET DONE BEFORE HIS
TERM ENDED.
ON HARMFUL PRODUCTS THAT ARE IN
EVERYDAY HOUSEHOLD PRODUCTS,
CHEMICALS.
>> Ifill: NOW WE KNOW THERE WILL
BE SOME DISCUSSION THAT HASN'T
BEEN DECIDED TONIGHT ABOUT HIS
SUCCESSION, WHAT THAT WILL LOOK
LIKE.
THAT'S UP TO THE GOVERNOR,
RIGHT?
>> IT'S COMPLICATED.
THE GOVERNOR GETS TO NAME AN
APPOINTEE.
HOW LONG THAT APPOINTEE SERVES
THERE'S TWO CONFLICTING
STATUTES.
POSSIBLY THERE WILL BE AN
ELECTION THIS YEAR.
ELECTION NEXT NOVEMBER OR
POSSIBLY THERE WILL BE AN
GOVERNOR CHRISTIE CAN CALL A
ELECTION NEXT NOVEMBER OR
SPECIAL ELECTION ON HIS OWN TIME
GOVERNOR CHRISTIE CAN CALL A
FRAME.
SPECIAL ELECTION ON HIS OWN TIME
THAT IS WHAT COMES INTO MAY
FRAME.
THERE.
THAT IS WHAT COMES INTO MAY
CHRIS CHRISTIE IS ALSO ON THE
THERE.
BALLOT IN NOVEMBER.
CHRIS CHRISTIE IS ALSO ON THE
DOES HE WANT A POTENTIAL SENATE
BALLOT IN NOVEMBER.
CANDIDATE WITH MORE MILLIONS OF
DOES HE WANT A POTENTIAL SENATE
DOLLARS TO COME IN AND PULL OUT
CANDIDATE WITH MORE MILLIONS OF
DEMOCRATIC VOTES?
DOLLARS TO COME IN AND PULL OUT
BUT WHO DOES HE APPOINT?
DEMOCRATIC VOTES?
DOES HE APPOINT SOMEBODY THAT
BUT WHO DOES HE APPOINT?
SATISFIES THE MORE MODERATE WING
DOES HE APPOINT SOMEBODY THAT
OF THE REPUBLICAN PARTY THAT HE
SATISFIES THE MORE MODERATE WING
REPRESENTS OR DOES HE APPOINT
OF THE REPUBLICAN PARTY THAT HE
SOMEBODY FROM THE RIGHT WHO
REPRESENTS OR DOES HE APPOINT
IS... WHO MAY BE MAKING CHRIS
SOMEBODY FROM THE RIGHT WHO
CHRISTIE MORE APPEALING IF HE
IS... WHO MAY BE MAKING CHRIS
RUNS FOR PRESIDENT IN 2016.
CHRISTIE MORE APPEALING IF HE
>> Ifill: ONCE AGAIN ALL EYES ON
RUNS FOR PRESIDENT IN 2016.
NEW JERSEY.
>> Ifill: ONCE AGAIN ALL EYES ON
HERB JACKSON OF THE RECORD,
NEW JERSEY.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
HERB JACKSON OF THE RECORD,
>> YOU'RE WELCOME.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
Brown: AGAIN THE OTHER MAJOR
>> YOU'RE WELCOME.
>> Brown: AGAIN, THE OTHER MAJOR
Brown: AGAIN THE OTHER MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY.
>> Brown: AGAIN, THE OTHER MAJOR
THE U.S. SUPREME COURT RULED
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY.
THAT, EVEN WITHOUT A WARRANT,
THE U.S. SUPREME COURT RULED
POLICE MAY TAKE D.N.A. SAMPLES
THAT, EVEN WITHOUT A WARRANT,
FROM SUSPECTS UNDER ARREST.
POLICE MAY TAKE D.N.A. SAMPLES
TURKISH PRIME MINISTER ERDOGAN
FROM SUSPECTS UNDER ARREST.
REJECTED DEMANDS THAT HE RESIGN,
TURKISH PRIME MINISTER ERDOGAN
AS MASS PROTESTS STRETCHED INTO
REJECTED DEMANDS THAT HE RESIGN,
A FOURTH DAY.
AS MASS PROTESTS STRETCHED INTO
AND A FIRE AT A POULTRY PLANT IN
A FOURTH DAY.
CHINA KILLED AT LEAST 119
AND A FIRE AT A POULTRY PLANT IN
PEOPLE.
CHINA KILLED AT LEAST 119
THIS EVENING OKLAHOMA'S CHIEF
PEOPLE.
MEDICAL EXAMINER RAISED THE
THIS EVENING OKLAHOMA'S CHIEF
DEATH TOLL FROM LAST FRIDAY'S
MEDICAL EXAMINER RAISED THE
TORNADOES TO 18.
DEATH TOLL FROM LAST FRIDAY'S
>> Ifill: ONLINE, RAY SAT DOWN
TORNADOES TO 18.
WITH ENGLISH ROCKER BILLY BRAGG.
>> Ifill: ONLINE, RAY SAT DOWN
KWAME HOLMAN HAS MORE.
WITH ENGLISH ROCKER BILLY BRAGG.
>> Holman: THE ENGLISH MUSICIAN
KWAME HOLMAN HAS MORE.
IS ON THE ROAD PROMOTING HIS
>> Holman: THE ENGLISH MUSICIAN
LATEST ALBUM, "TOOTH AND NAIL,"
IS ON THE ROAD PROMOTING HIS
A COLLECTION OF REFLECTIVE,
LATEST ALBUM, "TOOTH AND NAIL,"
HEAVILY COUNTRY-INFUSED SONGS.
A COLLECTION OF REFLECTIVE,
RAY CAUGHT UP WITH HIM ON HIS
HEAVILY COUNTRY-INFUSED SONGS.
TOUR BUS.
RAY CAUGHT UP WITH HIM ON HIS
>> OVER THE LAST 30 YEARS YOU'VE
TOUR BUS.
DONE A BIT OF EVERYTHING.
>> OVER THE LAST 30 YEARS YOU'VE
PRODUCTION, ALBUMS WITH BIG
DONE A BIT OF EVERYTHING.
BACKING.
PRODUCTION, ALBUMS WITH BIG
GROUPS OF MUSICIANS.
BACKING.
COMP LAYINGSES.
GROUPS OF MUSICIANS.
THIS IS A QUIET, INTROSPECTIVE
COMP LAYINGSES.
AND A LITTLE BIT COUNTRY.
THIS IS A QUIET, INTROSPECTIVE
>> I DON'T THINK IT'S ANYMORE
AND A LITTLE BIT COUNTRY.
COUNTRY THAN FROM MY
>> I DON'T THINK IT'S ANYMORE
NEIGHBORHOOD 22, 23 YEARS AGO.
COUNTRY THAN FROM MY
I THINK THE RECORD PUT ME IN
NEIGHBORHOOD 22, 23 YEARS AGO.
THAT ROOT MUSIC PLACE.
I THINK THE RECORD PUT ME IN
WE BRITS HAVE ALWAYS HAD A PUSH
THAT ROOT MUSIC PLACE.
OF AMERICANA.
WE BRITS HAVE ALWAYS HAD A PUSH
>> Holman: AND WE'RE LAUNCHING A
OF AMERICANA.
NEW SERIES TODAY ON HOW A
>> Holman: AND WE'RE LAUNCHING A
CHANGING CLIMATE AFFECTS THE
NEW SERIES TODAY ON HOW A
FOOD WE EAT.
CHANGING CLIMATE AFFECTS THE
CHECK OUT "WHAT'S FOR LUNCH" IN
FOOD WE EAT.
PARTNERSHIP WITH P.R.I.'S "THE
CHECK OUT "WHAT'S FOR LUNCH" IN
WORLD," ON OUR HOMEPAGE.
PARTNERSHIP WITH P.R.I.'S "THE
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR WEB
WORLD," ON OUR HOMEPAGE.
SITE, newshour.pbs.org.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR WEB
GWEN?
SITE, newshour.pbs.org.
>> Ifill: AND THAT'S THE
GWEN?
NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
>> Ifill: AND THAT'S THE
ON TUESDAY, WE'LL LOOK AT THE
NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
LATEST ON TROUBLES AT THE I.R.S.
ON TUESDAY, WE'LL LOOK AT THE
I'M GWEN IFILL.
LATEST ON TROUBLES AT THE I.R.S.
>> Brown: AND I'M JEFFREY BROWN.
I'M GWEN IFILL.
WE'LL SEE YOU ONLINE, AND AGAIN
>> Brown: AND I'M JEFFREY BROWN.
HERE TOMORROW EVENING.
WE'LL SEE YOU ONLINE, AND AGAIN
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
HERE TOMORROW EVENING.
GOOD NIGHT.